>> NARRATOR: Rockets...
hurling space probes deep into
the cosmos.
Sound waves... compelling solid
objects to float in midair.
Laser beams... vaporizing
targets with pinpoint accuracy.
Are these stunning examples of
mankind's modern technology?
Or are they merely recent
incarnations of scientific
achievements that have roots
stretching back to the ancient
past?
>> JASON MARTELL: We have
several cultures who depict
modern technology being used
thousands of years ago.
>> PHILIP COPPENS: They were
working with technology that
could literally break the Earth
in two.
>> DAVID CHILDRESS: How could
they have had these advanced
weapons that we've only just
acquired ourselves today?
>> GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Something
in our past has been lost, and
we're looking for that answer.
>> NARRATOR: Millions of people
around the world believe we have
been visited in the past by
extraterrestrial beings.
What if it were true?
Did ancient aliens really help
to shape our history?
And did mankind's cutting-edge
technology spring from our
imagination, or could it have
come from a source much farther
away?
Captioning sponsored by
A&E TELEVISION NETWORKS
>> NARRATOR: In the early
morning hours of November 5,
2005, the luxury cruise ship
the Seabourn Spirit found
itself under attack by pirates
in the waters off the coast
of Somalia.
But the Somali bandits were
successfully repelled by a
relatively new and formidable
defensive weapon: a Long Range
Acoustic Device or LRAD.
Manufactured by the LRAD
Corporation, this sonic device
can, when focused on a target,
produce a piercing sound that
can exceed 150 decibels-- enough
to cause temporary blindness,
nausea and permanent hearing
loss.
>> CHILDRESS: The U.S. Army used
sonic weapons in Iraq.
They're used in crowd control.
There are certain types of low
rumbles and signals that will
affect a person.
They make you feel sick.
>> NARRATOR: The LRAD is
currently used by law
enforcement, the military and
private security, and is
considered the ultimate in
sonic weaponry.
(high-pitched ringing)
But is the LRAD really a
21st-century invention?
Or is there evidence that
similar audio weapons existed
in ancient times?
Approximately 17 miles northeast
of Jerusalem lies the ancient
ruins of the city of Jericho.
Here, archaeologists have
uncovered evidence of
settlements dating back
to 9000 BC.
According to the Hebrew Bible,
Jericho is believed to be
where God spoke to Joshua,
the successor to Moses,
and instructed him to march
around the walled city once
every six days with seven
priests carrying rams' horns
and followed by the Ark of the
Covenant, the golden chest
containing the Ten Commandments.
Then, on the seventh day, under
orders by God, Joshua and the
Israelites marched around the
perimeter of the city one last
time.
(horns blowing)
But this time, they blew the
rams' horns.
The walls of Jericho fell...
and the city was sacked.
>> DAVID WILCOCK: In the Old
Testament, you see very clear
descriptions in Joshua 6 about
the shofar, which is described
as a trumpet that was used in
the Battle of Jericho to
actually bring the walls down.
>> NARRATOR: To religious
scholars, the collapse of
Jericho's walls was a miracle.
To most modern day scientists
and historians, the destruction
was most probably caused by
an earthquake.
But could it have been
something else?
Could the Israelites have
possessed advanced sound wave
technology?
If so, where did it come from?
>> JONATHAN YOUNG: In the
scriptures, we have a
fascinating story about the
fall of the walls of Jericho.
The armies were told to circle
the wall repeatedly, and then
finally blow their horns, and
down came the walls.
And we know there was a
powerful presence.
The Ark of the Covenant, this
mysterious, sacred item, was
with them at all times, which,
of course, was part of the event
and part of the fall of the
walls of Jericho.
>> CHILDRESS: The idea that
some kind of sonic weapon was
used to destroy these huge,
thick, ancient walls to allow
the Israelites to basically
take over that city is a
fascinating one.
So what kind of technology were
they using?
It sounds utterly fantastic to
us that they could have had some
kind of advanced alien
technology.
It's clearly what they're
describing.
>> TUDOR PARFITT: There is
little doubt that the Ark of
the Covenant was a weapon.
It was described as a weapon,
famously, when the Israelites
crossed over into Canaan and
they had to pass by Jericho.
And it could be that there was
some technology.
We do not know what that
technology was, but there was
clearly an association between
the Ark and the falling down of
the walls, and that's the reason
that the Ark was sent around
the periphery of the city.
>> NARRATOR: According to many
ancient astronaut theorists,
Moses and the Israelites
acquired a supernatural source
of energy at Mount Sinai.
This powerful energy source was
later contained in the Ark of
the Covenant, and would have
provided the kind of power
necessary to amplify Joshua's
horns and make them into a
powerful sonic weapon.
>> WILCOCK: What's interesting
about the Battle of Jericho is
that this particular use of the
shofar clearly seems to be the
same thing that we're seeing
with particle beam technology,
death ray technology,
thunderbolt technology.
It very clearly seems that once
again we have an
extraterrestrial technology
that the ancient people had at
the ready that they could use
when needed for military
campaigns.
>> NARRATOR: But even if the
Israelites possessed some sort
of advanced extraterrestrial
technology, could the amplified
sound of rams' horns really
bring down stone walls?
According to scientist and
former astronaut Professor
Taylor Wang, recent research
into the field of physical
acoustics suggests it is a
distinct possibility.
>> TAYLOR WANG: Jericho's wall
breaking apart-- if you said it
has happened, caused by
acoustics, caused by sound...
well, the possibility has to be
somehow a resonance is built
in that wall.
It may not be the whole wall--
maybe some of the structure
material.
When that resonance happens,
amplitude gets large enough,
yes, it could destroy almost
anything, because what the
resonance does is store
an enormous amount of energy.
So you keep on, keep on feeding
it, eventually it shatters
everything.
>> MICHAEL DENNIN: When you want
to know how powerful sound is,
you have to realize that the
basic thing that sound is, is a
pressure wave, and it will come
down to the amount of energy you
put into your sound wave and
whether or not that particular
pressure wave you generate will
couple or impact the thing
you're trying to destroy.
You can make it quite powerful,
'cause you can make a very high
amplitude, very large pressures
in the sound.
It might be at a frequency or
amplitude where we no longer
hear it as sound, but from a
physics point of view, it is
still sound because it's a
pressure wave in the air.
So it can get quite destructive,
if you put enough energy
into it.
You could also think of it as a
particle weapon because you're
moving air around, and you would
just need something to focus
the sound which we know
how to do.
So that would give you a
directed energy beam with sound.
>> NARRATOR: But if, as ancient
astronaut theorists suggest,
early civilizations had been
able to harness the power of
sound for destructive purposes,
could there be evidence that
such technology might also have
been used for a more
constructive purpose?
Might it help to explain the
existence of mammoth stone
structures whose construction
has baffled modern scientists
for centuries?
>> NARRATOR: Mycenae.
In the second millennium B.C.,
this ancient fortress city
dominated much of
southern Greece.
Here, fortifications were built
in a style known as
"cyclopean masonry,"
where huge limestone
boulders were fitted tightly
together without the use
of mortar.
The term "cyclopean" refers to
the fact that-- according to
ancient myths-- these
Mycenaean fortifications were
thought to be the work of a
strong, one-eyed race of giants
known as the Cyclopes.
>> PHILIP COPPENS: When you look
at Mycenae in Greece, you're
confronted with an anomalous
civilization, really.
It is a city which people who
looked at it said, "Only the
Cyclops could have built this."
The Cyclops is, perhaps not by
coincidence, a mythical
creature.
So we really are confronted
with the fact that people are
saying mankind could not have
built this.
It has to have been something
above, or other than man, who
has constructed these walls.
And when you look at the fact
that tons and tons and tons of
stones have been used in a way
that really defies,
almost, gravity...
and I think that's why we have
to say that Mycenae is
definitely beyond human
capability of that specific
time and that specific period
in Greek history.
>> TSOUKALOS: In Mycenae, Greece
there is what's called the
"Treasury of Atreus."
And right in there, there is
one stone that has been hoisted
over the entrance of that
treasury, and it weighs an
estimated 250 tons.
It is perfect.
Just unbelievable.
Now, we would have difficulties
today moving that stuff around.
Now, I'm not saying that we
today cannot do it.
I'm not saying that, but if
we're struggling with our
modern technology, is it really
logical to suggest that our
ancestors did this with pivots,
and with little ropes, and with
wooden rollers?
>> MICHAEL BARA: You look at all
these ancient structures all
over the world: Mayan
structures, pyramids,
Greek temples.
You see all of these... these
blocks that are not only
enormous, it would be
impossible to move them around
with anything but even our best
technology today.
>> CHILDRESS: One of the great
enigmas of the megalithic
buildings around the world is
that in many cases they're
built with such large and heavy
granite or basalt stones.
Even giant cranes would barely
be useful to lift some of these
really large stones, such as
the stones at Baalbek in
Lebanon, where you have just
mind-bogglingly huge stones
that weigh, in some cases, over
a thousand tons.
>> NARRATOR: But just how could
ancient man have built such
colossal structures?
Were the stones really moved by
beings with superhuman strength?
Or might the builders have had
access to an advanced-- perhaps
alien-- technology?
For ancient astronaut
theorists, the key might be
found not by studying the
laws of physics, but by
exploring the interdisciplinary
science of acoustics and the
principle of acoustic
levitation.
>> THOMAS VALONE: Acoustic
levitation is another way that
alien civilizations may have
influenced our history.
And there is some evidence for
that, especially when you look
at some of the research that's
been done in acoustic
levitation here in laboratories.
(steady, high-pitched tone)
>> WANG: This system is a
acoustic positioning device, and
what happens inside, we create
an acoustic force field.
The force field is pushing
everything toward the center.
And the force field can rotate,
the force field can oscillate.
This ball is fairly light
material.
It's about ten grams, no more.
It's meant to be light.
But if you want to move the
very heavy object, a large
object, what you really have to
develop in conjunction with the
acoustic positioning device, is
antigravity device.
Because acoustic position
device, really meant to fine
tuning of the force field, but
the system must be force-free,
otherwise it won't be budged.
>> NARRATOR: But is it possible
that early builders had access
to the kind of acoustic
technology that would allow for
the transportation and careful
placement of mega-ton boulders
and stone blocks?
Ancient astronaut theorists
believe clues can be found in
the myths and tales of magic
handed down throughout time.
>> TSOUKALOS: There are many
ancient legends which suggest
that some of the monuments were
built with the help of acoustic
levitation.
What the local legend of
Stonehenge talks about is that
those big stones were
transported by way of
levitation by none other than
Merlin the wizard.
And he had a magical rod with
which he pointed at the stones,
and they would levitate and
position into place.
It's a very fascinating
story, because we know
that some of these stones
have been transported there
from as far away as 200 miles.
And ancient legends are a
bridge to finding what truly
happened in our past.
>> BARA: There are lots of
stories of stones being
levitated, all using the power
of sound.
It's interesting as
you read these stories of magic,
that you see that they have to
use the chanting.
They have to chant certain
spells, certain words.
Certain vibrational frequencies
seem to create certain effects
in the physical realm.
To me, it makes complete sense
that the use of a technology,
say, a magic wand of some kind,
would be some sort of amplifier.
>> GEORGE NOORY: I mean, there's
no way that human beings, even
a hundred thousand of them,
could pull these things.
They've done experiments by
putting hands around blocks.
You can't get enough hands
in there.
You can't get 200,000 hands to
lift a block.
And once you roll it with all
these people, how do you
move it?
I think the technology had to
do with some kind of sound, and
they were able to just come up
with some antigravity, and just
move 'em into place.
>> NARRATOR: But did ancient
aliens, using antigravity and
sonic levitation technology,
help early humans build the
ancient wonders of the world?
>> WANG: Well, everything's
possible.
We have no way to rule in or
rule out aliens, because human
technology is very primitive
at this stage.
And you look at Earth-- has
only survived four billion
years, but there are planets
billions and billions of years
ahead of us.
Their technology and their
knowledge, it can be so far
ahead of us, we can't even
imagine.
>> NARRATOR: But if early
civilizations did possess the
ability to levitate large solid
objects, might they have also
possessed another even greater
ability?
Might they have also mastered
the power of flight?
>> NARRATOR: Flying saucers.
UFOs.
Mainstream historians claim
sightings of these mysterious
craft are mostly a 20th-century
phenomenon.
But according to ancient
astronaut theorists,
unidentified flying objects
have been appearing in Earth's
skies since the dawn of man.
>> CHILDRESS: Depictions of
flying saucers and what seems
to be some kind of ancient
spacecraft go back to some of
the earliest cave paintings
that we know of.
Scientists date these cave
paintings back to 20, 30,000
B.C.
And these cave paintings are in
Russia, China, Africa, South
America and other areas.
And they appear to be some kind
of a spacecraft.
>> WILCOCK: You can go back to
ancient Sumerian inscriptions
from Babylon, and you actually
see these discs with wings
around them and depictions of
people flying in them.
And you see the same thing in
Egypt where you see round discs
that have wings coming off them.
What you're dealing with is,
most likely, actually a flying
saucer that's being seen up in
space.
>> NARRATOR: Guatemala, Central
America.
According to most mainstream
scholars and archaeologists,
the earliest human settlements
in this region date back over
14,000 years.
Here can be found numerous
ancient artifacts, and among
them is this one: the figure of
a man lying inside what appears
to be the shell of a turtle.
>> TSOUKALOS: And when I asked
the local archaeologist there,
"What is this?" they said,
without the flinching of an eye,
"Well, this is, according to
legend, the giant flying turtles
which flew around in Guatemala."
The entire body is
aerodynamically fashioned.
The extremities are pressed in
an aerodynamic fashion against
the body of this turtle.
And if you look closely, it's
as if there's some modern day
fighter pilot glasses or
goggles.
This right here is from the
same culture, from the same
region where they created the
turtle in clay.
So they knew exactly what a
turtle looked like.
It looks like a snapping turtle.
And what we have here-- that is
everything but a turtle.
It's something else.
In their frame of reference,
they were able to use the
turtle as the best example of
what they might have seen that
the gods used to fly around in.
>> NARRATOR: Halfway around the
world, in 329 B.C., the Greek
ruler Alexander the Great
planned the invasion of India.
But according to ancient texts,
his army was supposedly
thwarted by a strange attack
from the skies.
>> CHILDRESS: As Alexander's
army was getting ready to cross
the Indus and invade India,
suddenly in the sky appeared
these flying discs.
And they began dive-bombing at
the war elephants that were
part of Alexander's army.
And what these flying discs did
was cause stampedes within
Alexander's own war elephants,
who then ran amok throughout
his army, tearing up the camps
and everything.
And after that, Alexander's
generals met with him, and they
said, "No, we're not going into
India.
This is it.
We're gonna turn back."
And that was the end of that war
campaign.
>> NARRATOR: But whether in
ancient times or much more
recently, so-called flying
saucers are often described as
being unaffected by gravity or
the basic laws of physics.
>> STEVEN GREER: You know, I
know that people who have, who
have seen, uh, extraterrestrial
vehicles in modern times have
said, "How in the world could it
be doing that?"
For example, it's moving
through the sky, and it's going
20,000 miles per hour, and makes
a right-hand turn without
decelerating-- that isn't
possible using normal
aerodynamics.
>> CHILDRESS: When jets have
been scrambled after flying
saucers, the saucers are
described as suddenly turning
at right angles at super speeds
and just zipping off in what
seems like impossible aerobatic
maneuvers.
And this can be explained as
the kind of technology they're
using which is a gravity
control.
It's artificial gravity.
So when you're inside of a
gravitational field that you're
creating yourself around your
craft, the gravity of the Earth
doesn't have a force on you.
>> NARRATOR: But although
aircraft propulsion by means of
gravity manipulation is beyond
the limits of current
technology, many scientists
claim it is theoretically
possible.
In Davis, California,
Canadian-born inventor Dr.
Paul Moller tests the
boundaries of real-life science
with a recreational flying
vehicle called the Neuera.
>> MOLLER: The Neuera is a very
simple device to fly.
It has eight lifting ducted
fans, as we call them, each one
driven by its own engine.
One of the big advantages of
this kind of round shape is
that you end up with the
strength in the skin of the
vehicle itself, much like the
shell of a beetle.
And that gets you a very, very
strong design.
This-- air frames you see over
here next to this vehicle which
are similar to this, weigh only
75 pounds apiece, which is
incredible.
You get a complete airframe
that's capable of lifting 1,500
pounds with a 75-pound shell.
>> NARRATOR: But could the
inherent design strength of a
disc-shaped object be the key
to overcoming the forces of
gravity?
And does the prevalence of
flying saucer sightings suggest
a connection between
antigravity technology and
extraterrestrial visitations?
>> MOLLER: Gravity is one of
the most unknown forces in
physics today, and when we do
understand it, we'll be able to
find out a way to shield
ourselves from it or to
provide a device, a method,
electromagnetically, but with
some much greater knowledge
than we have today, where we
eliminate it within the
vehicles' operations.
>> NARRATOR: Although
antigravity devices in the
form of flying saucers may help
to explain how
extraterrestrials might have
been able to travel at
ultrahigh speeds, there is in
fact another means of
interplanetary transportation.
And it is one that humans, and
perhaps aliens, have been able
to use for centuries: the brute
force of rockets.
>> NARRATOR: Merritt Island,
Florida.
The Kennedy Space Center.
Six Earth astronauts sit atop
NASA's Endeavor Space Shuttle
headed for orbit.
After countdown, three main
engines, together with two
solid rocket boosters, provide
the thrust to lift the orbiter
off the ground for its ascent.
>> And liftoff of Shuttle
Endeavor.
>> TSOUKALOS: I urge everyone
to be part one day of a
rocket launch, because it is a
life-altering moment.
When you stand there, a few
miles away, you can still feel
the power as that rocket takes
off into space.
A grumbling in your stomach,
the vibrations, and you can
hear the noise.
And it's a truly magnificent
sight and awe-inspiring.
>> NARRATOR: But are manned
space flights really a recent
phenomenon?
Or could our ancient ancestors
have witnessed similar events?
>> NOORY: There is no doubt
that if we thoroughly
investigate this planet, they
will find that this planet may
have already been to the moon
way before we went to the moon
with a man in 1969.
>> TSOUKALOS: The interesting
thing is that we have the exact
same descriptions in ancient
texts and also in oral
traditions, where whenever
those quote, unquote "gods"
appeared, there was a lot of
smoke, a lot of fire, a lot of
noise, and the trembling of the
ground.
>> CHILDRESS: When rockets are
taking off, it's best to stand
back and get out of the way.
And that's a lot of what the
ancient legends are about, too.
When the gods came and went, it
may well have been just these
rockets or other aerospace
vehicles landing and taking off
and making a lot of smoke and
noise.
>> NARRATOR: But could early
man really have had knowledge
of rocket technology?
To make their case, ancient
astronaut theorists point to
numerous and consistent
descriptions of rockets found
throughout many cultures of the
ancient world.
>> GREER: When you're dealing
with this subject and you look
at the ancient literature, you
have to look at it through the
lens of how is it being
experienced by a civilization
with no foundation for
understanding the science, the
technology.
And so I think, in ancient
times, there were people who had
encounters.
However, I think the way they
might have been reported
would've been in metaphors, in
ways that would have made sense
to them.
>> CHILDRESS: In China, you have
these stories of dragons flying
through the air.
They make a lot of noise and
smoke comes out of them and
fire, just like a rocket.
>> TSOUKALOS: The first emperor
of China descended in a fiery
dragon, with smoke and fire, and
whenever that dragon appeared,
the earth was quaking and
everyone was afraid and-and
threw themselves to the ground.
Now, of course it wasn't a
dragon in a biological nature,
a living being.
But it was a misinterpreted
machine.
>> BARA: If you look at the
Greek gods, they were all
described as flying in on
chariots of fire.
Well, a chariot of fire, to me,
seems very clearly like it's
some sort of rocket, probably
burning its retros as it lands
somewhere in ancient Greece.
>> TSOUKALOS: In the Old
Testament, we can read about a
glowing furnace that descended
from the sky.
And sometimes this glowing
furnace is described as a
chariot of fire or as the glory
of the Lord.
So there are all these different
descriptions, which in the
ancient astronaut opinion
describe ancient rocketry.
>> NARRATOR: From 5000 to 2000
B.C., southern Mesopotamia was
home to the Sumerians, a highly
advanced civilization
considered to be among the
first astronomers.
Regarded as one of the oldest
written stories in history, The
Epic of Gilgamesh told of a
man's journey to the heavens to
meet the god Anu.
>> ERICH VON DANIKEN: The
Gilgamesh epic, which goes back
to the Sumerian, that's a piece
where the hero, Gilgamesh, flies
over the Earth.
And he describes how the Earth
looks from above. Fascinating.
An old story of the first
flight.
>> MARTELL: The most ancient
civilization that we have on
record, the Sumerian culture,
has left us evidence of what's
called a shem.
And this object looks very
similar to a modern-day space
capsule that we place on top of
a rocket.
And this shem is where priests
would go into the shem to
interact with the gods, or
anytime man was ascending or
descending into heaven.
So it's a very interesting term
used from a culture dating back
to 3800 B.C. and very clearly
matches the descriptions of a
modern-day rocket.
>> NARRATOR: Could early man
have actually possessed a
surprisingly sophisticated
understanding of what we now
call rocket propulsion?
In the first century A.D.,
nearly 2,000 years before the
industrial revolution, a Greek
mathematician and engineer
named Hero created a
steam-powered engine he called
an aeolipile.
>> CHILDRESS: One of the great
inventors of the ancient world
was the famous Hero of
Alexandria.
He invented all kinds of stuff.
He actually invented what we
would describe as a rocket-type
motor.
And really, something like this
is the beginnings of rocket
technology.
And we don't know where Hero got
many of his ideas, but it may
well have come from aliens.
>> NARRATOR: John Robert
Tindall, founder of Tindall
Vision Laboratories,
demonstrates a small-scale
replica of Hero's aeolipile.
>> TINDALL: Now, a conventional
steam engine that we think of
has pistons that get its power,
but aeolipile uses these
opposing jets, so it's creating
thrust.
And rather than a thrust in...
like, a rocket would use it in
a linear fashion,
this is causing a rotational
effect, and there's your steam
turbine, really, working off of
thrust.
Now this is operating much as
it did in the first century A.D.
This is generally considered to
be the first working steam
engine.
It works more like a turbine
than a classic steam engine
with pistons, but it's very
significant because it really
is taking-- whoa!-- a compressed
gas (chuckles) and turning it
into energy.
Wow!
That has a lot of energy, steam.
>> NARRATOR: The name for
Hero's steam rocket engine,
"aeolipile," translates to "the
ball of Aeolus."
In Greek mythology, Aeolus was
the god of the winds.
Is it possible that Hero drew
inspiration for his invention
from the stories of the gods,
such as those found in Homer's
The Odyssey?
Or might he have had help from
the gods themselves?
>> TSOUKALOS: Some have
suggested that it was alien
intervention, that aliens
taught him how to build this
machine.
However, I'm leaning more
towards the idea that he looked
at older texts from previous
generations and that the source
of the idea of how to build
this did come from
extraterrestrials, but from way
before he was alive, and he
just came across those texts.
>> NARRATOR: But do the
descriptions of rockets and
otherworldly devices found in
ancient texts and legends
provide evidence of
extraterrestrial encounters in
the distant past?
Perhaps the answer
will be discovered in an
unlikely place... in the hands
of the U.S. military.
>> NARRATOR: May 2010... off the
coast of California.
A powerful new weapon shoots
down unmanned aerial drones
during secret testing carried
out by the U.S. Navy.
Firing from a warship at a
distance of nearly two miles,
a ray of intense laser energy
burns through targets traveling
at speeds of more than 300
miles per hour.
But is it possible that such
so-called "death rays" could
have been used before?
Perhaps in ancient times?
>> GREER: I'm quite convinced
that there have been in the past
advanced civilizations on Earth
that did have such things as
the so-called death ray.
Whether it was used as a
weapon, or whether it was just
observed being used is a very,
very open question.
>> NARRATOR: In 214 B.C., Greeks
living in the Sicilian city of
Syracuse prepared for an attack
by a fleet of Roman warships.
Though outnumbered by a
superior military force,
ancient texts suggest that
Syracuse was well-defended by a
mysterious and powerful new
weapon.
>> CHILDRESS: Probably the most
famous ancient death ray was
the one that was built by the
Greek inventor Archimedes.
He was able to create this
giant mirror and parabolic disc,
and focus the sun's rays on the
fleet and set these ships
on fire.
So here we have what would be a
primitive kind of death ray
that really worked.
>> NARRATOR: But how could
Archimedes have conceived such
a formidable weapon?
One far in advance of any
known at the time?
Researchers suggest the
inventor may have drawn
inspiration from Greek myths
written nearly 600 years before
the Battle of Syracuse.
Myths that told the stories of
gods that brandished cosmic
weapons of incredible
destructive force.
>> WILCOCK If you look in the
Greek tradition they have a
very clear description of Zeus'
thunderbolt, which he was able
to point at people or at other
things that he wanted to
explode, hit the button, and
what they described as
lightning would come out and
create a fierce and terrible
explosion.
>> CHILDRESS: When these ancient
gods, like Zeus, were to come
down from the sky in this
flurry of thunder and
lightning, and then get out of
their spacecraft, they were
perceived as gods.
These ancient aliens had
fantastic technology available
to them, a technology that
would've seemed like magic to
our primitive ancestors.
So when these people came down
from the sky, and they had
advanced energy weapons, they
were like gods to our ancient
ancestors.
>> TSOUKALOS It doesn't matter
where you go, but the gods were
always able to create thunder,
create lightning in a
controlled way.
In ancient India we have the
gods holding the dorje
sometimes like this, and it
looks as if some type of a
directed energy beam comes
directly out of the front to
vanquish the enemy, to destroy
him, to incinerate him.
>> NARRATOR: But if death ray-
type weapons had been used in
ancient times, might there be
some sort of tangible proof?
Perhaps there is.
Here, scattered throughout
the Scottish countryside, can
be found numerous ancient ruins.
Many appear to have been forts
or other enclosures dating
back thousands of years.
Remarkably, they also appear to
have been subjected to fire and
heat so intense it practically
turned the stone structures
into glass.
It's a process more
scientifically known as
"vitrification."
>> WILCOCK: Here you have these
stone buildings in which an
analysis of the outside comes
to the conclusion that they
were heated to over a thousand
degrees Celsius in temperature.
Conventional fire could not
have reached this heat.
You needed a sustained burn at
a thousand degrees Celsius for a
long period of time.
Why is it that it's only these
forts that have this type of
charring where they're actually
glazed like pottery on
the outside?
Why is it that you don't see it
on the stones in the
surrounding area?
And even more interestingly, why
is it that so many of 'em are
concentrated into this one
little area in northern
Scotland?
I believe this is very clear
evidence of death rays
being used.
>> NARRATOR: According to Celtic
legend, there once was a god
named Lugh, also known as
"The Shining One," the sun god,
and the god of war.
Like the Greek god Zeus, Lugh
was said to wield a mighty
"magic spear" not unlike the
thunderbolts of his Greek
counterpart.
>> YOUNG: We have many stories
of divinities who were powerful
figures who had weapons that
seemed extraordinary for
their time.
One was the great Celtic
divinity Lugh, who had a spear
that could spit fire and
lightning and do great damage.
It was an extraordinary weapon.
We don't have a great deal of
detail about it, but it clearly
could dominate any situation
he got into.
>> TSOUKALOS: When battle was
near, Lugh would draw out his
spear, and it roared, and then
flashes of fire came out of it,
and it tore through the ranks of
the enemy.
Never tired of
killing and slaying.
It was one amazing weapon.
I mean, how else can we explain
all those numerous vitrified
forts where the surface of the
stone is as smooth as glass?
And these spots can only be
found in very concentrated
areas through northern Scotland.
>> NARRATOR: Is it possible that
what the Celtic legends are
describing as Lugh is, in fact,
an alien general or other kind
of extraterrestrial leader in
possession of a devastating
weapon?
>> TSOUKALOS: All these
descriptions of sophisticated
weaponry sounds almost like
science fiction.
But is it, really?
Because we have those weapons
today!
(loud buzzing)
And I think it is merely
a reinvention of history; that
all the stuff that we have
today has been around before,
and that our past is not
science fiction, but science
fact.
>> NARRATOR: Deadly laser
beams...
acoustic levitation...
antigravity.
Could these be technologies
that were witnessed
and even used by
ancient civilizations?
If so, were they conceived in
the minds of early man?
Or did they have different--
perhaps otherworldly-- origins?
Might unlocking the secrets of
these inventions be the key to
discovering our ancient past?
Or by rediscovering lost
technology, might we clear the
path to our own future and to
the limitless potential
of the universe beyond?
Captioning sponsored by
A&E TELEVISION NETWORKS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org